Title: AREA 6. EXTERNAL RELATIONS

Rating Guide:


5 - Excellent : The practice is exemplary and serves as a model to others. The implementation of the criterion has led to excellent results.

4 - Very Good : The criterion has been effectively implemented, and this has led to very good results.

3 - Good : The criterion has been implemented adequately and has led to good results.

2 - Needs Minor Improvement : The criterion has been implemented but needs minor improvement. In addition, the implementation has led to inconsistent or limited results

1 - Needs Major Improvement : The criterion has been inadequately implemented and needs significant improvement. The implementation has led to insignificant or unsatisfactory results.

0 - Not Implemented : The criterion has not been implemented. Furthermore, no evidence is presented to show that initiatives have been carried out to implement it.


Sub-area: Sub-area 6.1. Networks, Linkages, and Partnerships 

Standard: STANDARD 16.   
The institution establishes networks, linkages, and partnerships with local, national, regional, 
and international agencies and groups to pursue its vision, mission, and goals.

Questions:
(Rating 0-5)
1. The school has a policy for national and international collaboration with 
other educational institutions.

2. The medical school establishes membership in national, regional, or 
international professional or scientific organizations.

3. Administrators and faculty members are affiliated with prestigious local, 
national, regional, and international professional or scientific organizations.

4. There are consortium arrangements with leading prestigious medical 
schools in the region.

5. There are networks and linkages with local or international schools or 
organizations.

6. The school has linkages with agencies for funding research. 

7. The school has grants and donations for academic chairs and scholarships 
from foundations or agencies.

8. The medical school has interaction with local and national health units and 
other health sectors.

9. There are established foreign visiting or exchange professorship 
arrangements. 

10. There is a good number of exchange or visiting professors.

11. There are established arrangements for exchange students 




Section 2

Sub-area: Sub-area 6.2. Community Engagement and Service

Standard: STANDARD 17. 
The institution commits to conduct community engagements and service activities as part of 
its social responsibility and corporate citizenship.

Questions:

1. The medical school provides time in the curriculum for health promotion and 
disease prevention in a community.

2. The curriculum includes contact with patients in relevant clinical settings. 

3. The school and the community share responsibility for the promotion and 
maintenance of community health.

4. The medical school promotes leadership in initiating and maintaining 
development projects in the community.

5. The medical school provides activities and programs to develop social 
awareness, concern, and responsibility in the students and faculty.

6. Medical students plan and implement projects designed to help the community 
attain self-reliance in health care. 

7. Community projects help raise awareness of social conditions and how they 
relate to the development of diseases.

8. Exposure to the community outside the school develops social accountability 
and responsibility in the students and faculty.

9. There is a well-planned community-based health program.

10. The program follows the concepts and principles of primary health care. 

11. The medical school collaborates with the government, the private sector, and 
the community to support healthcare delivery to the underserved, such as 
racial and ethnic minorities, displaced persons, the rural and urban poor, and 
the inhabitants of Geographically Isolated and Disadvantaged Areas (GIDA).