Title: Area 8. RESULTS

Rating Guide:


5 - Excellent : The practice is exemplary and serves as a model to others. The implementation of the criterion has led to excellent results.

4 - Very Good : The criterion has been effectively implemented, and this has led to very good results.

3 - Good : The criterion has been implemented adequately and has led to good results.

2 - Needs Minor Improvement : The criterion has been implemented but needs minor improvement. In addition, the implementation has led to inconsistent or limited results

1 - Needs Major Improvement : The criterion has been inadequately implemented and needs significant improvement. The implementation has led to insignificant or unsatisfactory results.

0 - Not Implemented : The criterion has not been implemented. Furthermore, no evidence is presented to show that initiatives have been carried out to implement it.


Sub-area: Sub-area 8.1 Educational Results  

Standard: STANDARD 20. 
The educational process results include the achievement of the expected learning outcomes, 
pass rates, dropout rates, the average time to graduate, employability of graduates, pass 
rates of graduates in board examinations of board-related program offerings, and the 
satisfaction levels of graduates, among others.

Questions:
(Rating 0-5)
1. The medical program's expected institutional and course learning outcomes are 
defined, monitored, and assessed for improvement. 

2. All courses of the medical program's pass and dropout rates are identified, 
monitored, and assessed for improvement.

3. The average time to graduate for the program is identified, monitored, and 
assessed for improvement.

4. A career progression program is established, monitored, and assessed for 
improvement.

5. The performance rate within or above the national passing rate and the failure 
rates of graduates in the physician licensure examination (PLE) are identified, 
monitored, and assessed for improvement.

6. The satisfaction levels of key stakeholders on the quality of graduates are 
established, monitored, and assessed for improvements.   




Section 2

Sub-area: Sub-area 8.2. Community Engagement and Service Results 

Standard: STANDARD 21. 
The institution's community engagement and service programs produce results that impact 
the institution, its stakeholders, and society.

Questions:

1. The nature and volume of community engagement and service activities are 
identified, monitored, and assessed for improvement.

2. The societal impact and achievements of these activities are identified, 
monitored, and assessed for improvement. 

3. The impact on the medical school, faculty, staff, and students is identified, 
monitored, and assessed for improvement.

4. The impact on these activities' beneficiaries and other stakeholders is 
identified, monitored, and assessed for improvement.



Section 3

Sub-area: Sub-area 8.3. Research Results

Standard: STANDARD 22. 
The institution has produced research outputs through new knowledge embodied in 
publications, citations, journals, research-informed teaching, technology transfers, 
innovations, inventions, creative works, etc.

Questions:

1. The nature and number of research outputs done by faculty members and 
staff are documented, monitored, and assessed for improvement.

2. The nature and number of researches done by research teams and students 
are documented and assessed for improvement.

3. The nature and number of research publications are documented, 
monitored, and assessed for improvement.

4. The nature and number of intellectual properties are documented, 
monitored, and assessed for improvement.

5. The impact of research outputs and their publications are identified, 
monitored, and assessed for improvement.

6. The stakeholders' satisfaction in research activities is determined to guide 
further research development in the institution.




Section 4

Sub-area: Sub-area 8.4. Financial and Competitiveness Results 

Standard: STANDARD 23. 
The institution's financial performance and competitiveness are measured, monitored, and 
assessed for improvement and sustainability.

Questions:

1. Asset acquisition and placement, retention, and disposal are monitored and 
assessed for improvement.

2. Financing in terms of debt, equity, grants, or endowments is monitored and 
assessed for improvement. 

3. Education, research, and service activities measured in income and expenditure 
streams are monitored and assessed for improvement. 

4. Cash flows are established, monitored, and assessed for improvement. 

5. Reserves and savings are established, monitored, and assessed for 
improvement. 

6. Indicators of a reputation for quality program offerings, research, and extension 
activities are identified, monitored, and assessed for improvement.

7. Best practices of the medical school are identified, monitored, and assessed for 
improvement.