Title: AREA 5. STUDENT SERVICES 

Rating Guide:


5 - Excellent : The practice is exemplary and serves as a model to others. The implementation of the criterion has led to excellent results.

4 - Very Good : The criterion has been effectively implemented, and this has led to very good results.

3 - Good : The criterion has been implemented adequately and has led to good results.

2 - Needs Minor Improvement : The criterion has been implemented but needs minor improvement. In addition, the implementation has led to inconsistent or limited results

1 - Needs Major Improvement : The criterion has been inadequately implemented and needs significant improvement. The implementation has led to insignificant or unsatisfactory results.

0 - Not Implemented : The criterion has not been implemented. Furthermore, no evidence is presented to show that initiatives have been carried out to implement it.


Sub-area: Sub-Area 5.1. Student Recruitment, Admission, and Placement 

Standard: STANDARD 14. 
The institution has effective recruitment, admission, and placement of students with defined 
criteria that are valid and reliable.

Questions:
(Rating 0-5)
1. A system with defined plans, structures, and policies is established for the 
recruitment and admission of students.

2. Criteria for student selection and placement are defined, promoting proper 
matching of student aptitudes and capabilities to the medical program.

3. Defined procedures are implemented to ensure effective implementation of 
recruitment, admission, and placement of students.

4. Measures are undertaken to monitor the effectiveness of the system for 
recruitment, admission, and placement.

5. Student recruitment, admission, and placement are improved to ensure that 
that they remain relevant and practical.

6. Student recruitment and selection processes conform to the regulatory 
standards set for admission to the medical education program.

7. The institution's admission policies and student selection processes are widely 
publicized.




Section 2

Sub-area: Sub-area 5.2. Student Services Programs and Support

Standard: STANDARD 15. 
The institution ensures that student services and support are adequate and readily accessible 
to support students in their academic and non-academic pursuits and promote personal well
being.

Questions:

1. The medical school has a well-defined, comprehensive system to support the 
academic needs of students.

2. The medical school has accessible programs for student services to support the 
academic and non-academic needs of students.

3. There is a process to identify and monitor students needing personal 
counseling, academic or financial support.

4. There is provision for adequate, accessible, and affordable health services to 
students.

5. There are adequate financial and physical resources and qualified support staff 
appointed to provide student services and support.

6. Measures are undertaken to review the effectiveness of the programs for 
student services and support and student monitoring systems.

7. Student services and support and student monitoring systems are improved to 
meet the needs of students according to established standards.

8. The available student services are gender-sensitive and culturally appropriate. 