Title: AREA 3. RESOURCE MANAGEMENT

Rating Guide:


5 - Excellent : The practice is exemplary and serves as a model to others. The implementation of the criterion has led to excellent results.

4 - Very Good : The criterion has been effectively implemented, and this has led to very good results.

3 - Good : The criterion has been implemented adequately and has led to good results.

2 - Needs Minor Improvement : The criterion has been implemented but needs minor improvement. In addition, the implementation has led to inconsistent or limited results

1 - Needs Major Improvement : The criterion has been inadequately implemented and needs significant improvement. The implementation has led to insignificant or unsatisfactory results.

0 - Not Implemented : The criterion has not been implemented. Furthermore, no evidence is presented to show that initiatives have been carried out to implement it.


Sub-area: Sub-area 3.1. Human Resources 

Standard: STANDARD 8.  
The institution has adequate and qualified human resources, both teaching and non-teaching, 
that enable it to perform its teaching, research, and community service functions. It has 
programs in place for the recruitment, selection, hiring, deployment, training, and retirement 
of personnel.

Questions:
(Rating 0-5)
1. Human resource plans, policies, and programs are defined and implemented to 
enable the medical school to achieve its teaching, research, and community 
service functions.

2. Recruitment, selection, and hiring policies are formulated and communicated 
and are consistently applied.

3. Training and development programs are needs-based and are provided to 
employees.

4. Deployment, promotion, succession, and career pathing programs are in place.

5. A performance management system covering job evaluation, reward, 
recognition, coaching, and mentoring is in place.

6. Salaries, incentives, and benefits are set at levels that ensure the medical school 
attracts and retains qualified staff.

7. Provisions for resignation, termination, and retirement are in place.

8. There is a sufficient workforce to attend to the needs of the medical school.

9. The working environment is risk-free and safe for the employees.

10. Policies and programs are in place to promote the well-being of employees.

11. Human resource plans, policies, and programs are periodically assessed for 
improvement.




Section 2

Sub-area: Sub-area 3.2. Financial Resources

Standard: STANDARD 9. 
A system is in place to manage the institution's financial resources, including efficient 
sourcing, allocation, use, safeguarding, and accounting.

Questions:

1. The financial management system is designed to make resources available to 
support the medical school's vision, mission, and goals, particularly in teaching, 
research, and community service.

2. There are adequate funds to guarantee the viability of medical school 
operations and programs, with provisions for good sourcing of finances when 
needed.

3. A participative budgeting process is in place, which includes regular budget 
performance reports and analysis.

4. Accounting internal controls function effectively to safeguard the assets, 
promote the integrity of the accounting records, and ensure compliance with 
regulatory requirements.

5. Internal and external audits are regularly carried out to ensure the reliability of 
accounting systems and reports.

6. Responsibilities for asset custody, use, control, and accountability are clearly 
defined.


Section 3

Sub-area: Sub-area 3.3. Learning, Physical and IT Facilities

Standard: STANDARD 10. 
The institution has adequate, conducive, up-to-date, well-maintained, and safe facilities to 
support the functions of teaching-learning, research, and community service.

Questions:

1. There is a facilities development plan with a sufficient budget that is 
documented and regularly updated.

2. The plan reflects consideration for environmental responsibility in its programs.

3. There is an office responsible for the development, maintenance, and safety of 
the physical facilities.

4. Infrastructures are adequate and relevant to support teaching-learning, 
research, and community service.

5. Classrooms, lecture halls, seminar rooms,  and computer rooms are adequate, 
kept clean, free from distractions, and conducive for learning.

6. Library and laboratories are adequate, accessible, up-to-date, and with a 
budget for developing collections.

7. The IT facilities and infrastructure, both hardware and software, are adequate, 
up-to-date, and secure.

8. There are sufficient provisions in the use of physical facilities to promote the 
health and safety of students and staff.

9. The medical school is compliant with contractual and government requirements 
as to physical and IT facilities.

10. Some facilities and provisions cater to people with special needs.