Title: AREA 4. TEACHING-LEARNING

Rating Guide:


5 - Excellent : The practice is exemplary and serves as a model to others. The implementation of the criterion has led to excellent results.

4 - Very Good : The criterion has been effectively implemented, and this has led to very good results.

3 - Good : The criterion has been implemented adequately and has led to good results.

2 - Needs Minor Improvement : The criterion has been implemented but needs minor improvement. In addition, the implementation has led to inconsistent or limited results

1 - Needs Major Improvement : The criterion has been inadequately implemented and needs significant improvement. The implementation has led to insignificant or unsatisfactory results.

0 - Not Implemented : The criterion has not been implemented. Furthermore, no evidence is presented to show that initiatives have been carried out to implement it.


Sub-area: Sub-area 4.1. Curricular Programs

Standard: STANDARD 11. 
A system to design, develop, and review the program offerings is established, ensuring 
alignment with the institutional vision-mission and goals, with program objectives and 
learning outcomes, and relevant to meeting stakeholders' needs.

Questions:
(Rating 0-5)
1. The medical program is aligned with the vision, mission, and goals of the 
institution.

2. The content includes basic biomedical sciences, research, clinical sciences, skills, 
and behavioral and social sciences.

3. An established system is in place for the design, development, and review of 
the medical program.

4. Delivery plans and syllabi are developed for each course and communicated 
based on expected learning outcomes.

5. The course objectives, including the expected learning outcomes of the medical 
program, are established.

6. Students and key stakeholders participate in the design, development, and 
review of the medical program.

7. The system of managing the medical program is regularly assessed for 
improvement and updating.

8. All students are exposed to various learning opportunities in which priority 
health care concerns are addressed, high-quality and cost-effective health care 
is provided, and the practice of health care to the underserved.

9. Students see patients and interact with teams of health professionals to 
develop the necessary knowledge, skills, and attitudes for providing competent 
and compassionate patient care.




Section 2

Sub-area: Sub-area 4.2. Teaching and Learning Methods

Standard: STANDARD 12. 
A system to select, develop, and evaluate the appropriate teaching and learning methods and 
activities is established to achieve the desired learning outcomes.

Questions:

1. There is a system to select, develop, use and evaluate appropriate teaching 
and learning methods and activities.

2. The methods and activities employed are aligned with the educational 
philosophy of the institution.

3. The teaching-learning strategies are adopted to a virtual or blended mode of 
instruction.

4. Whenever possible, interprofessional education and health teams are 
incorporated as teaching-learning strategies.

5. Stakeholders' feedback is considered in selecting, developing, and using 
teaching-learning methods and activities.

6. The methods and activities adopted to promote the achievement of the 
learning outcomes and promote life-long learning.

7. Monitoring and evaluating the methods and activities deployed for 
improvement using current innovations and trends in teaching-learning 
modalities are regularly done.

8. There is a functioning curriculum committee responsible for monitoring and 
evaluating the teaching-learning methods and activities. 




Section 3

Sub-area: Sub-area 4.3. Assessment Methods

Standard: STANDARD 13.  
A system is in place to plan and select the most appropriate assessment types to achieve the 
expected learning outcomes.

Questions:

1. There is an established system to track students' progress from admission, 
their progression from one level to the next, up to the time of graduation.

2. Various assessment methods are aligned with the achievement of the expected 
learning outcomes of the course and the medical program and are valid, 
reliable, and fair.

3. Assessment methods are adopted to a virtual or blended mode of instruction.

4. A system is in place to ensure the integrity of the assessment process.

5. Exit interviews of graduating students are regularly conducted to serve as 
inputs for assessment methods and course improvements.

6. Methods for assessment and results are regularly reviewed and evaluated for 
improvement.

7. There is an appeal process for assessment results.