Title: AREA 1 : LEADERSHIP AND GOVERNANCE

Rating Guide:


5 - Excellent : The practice is exemplary and serves as a model to others. The implementation of the criterion has led to excellent results.

4 - Very Good : The criterion has been effectively implemented, and this has led to very good results.

3 - Good : The criterion has been implemented adequately and has led to good results.

2 - Needs Minor Improvement : The criterion has been implemented but needs minor improvement. In addition, the implementation has led to inconsistent or limited results

1 - Needs Major Improvement : The criterion has been inadequately implemented and needs significant improvement. The implementation has led to insignificant or unsatisfactory results.

0 - Not Implemented : The criterion has not been implemented. Furthermore, no evidence is presented to show that initiatives have been carried out to implement it.


Sub-area: Sub-area 1.1. Vision Mission

Standard: STANDARD 1.
The institution has clearly articulated and disseminated the vision and mission statements that reflect its educational philosophy, core values, and goals to key stakeholders.

Questions:
(Rating 0-5)
1. The process of articulating the vision and mission statements was carried out involving the participation of the medical school's stakeholders.

2. The vision and mission statements are communicated periodically to its stakeholders.

3. All sectors of the medical school can identify with and own the vision-mission statements of the institution.

4. The medical school defines clear indicators of how the vision and mission are achieved.

5. There is a periodic revisiting of the medical school's vision and mission.

6. The medical school has a clearly articulated mission statement that addresses the priority health care needs of the community, region, and nation.




Section 2

Sub-area: Sub-area 1.2. Leadership and Management

Standard: STANDARD 2.
The institution practices responsible management and models leadership that results in effective and efficient operations.  

Questions:

1.  The Governing Board and the administrators are well qualified and have the experience to function in their respective roles.

2.  Management promotes good governance, promoting integrity and accountability.

3.  Leadership is open to suggestions and proactively anticipating and responding to changes that may affect the medical school's operations.

4.  Leadership training and succession planning are provided for.




Section 3

Sub-area: Sub-area 1.3. Strategic Management

STANDARD 3.
A strategic planning activity participated in by key stakeholders is periodically conducted to formulate, implement and evaluate plans and programs toward achieving the institution's vision, mission, and goals.   

Questions:

1.  The medical school periodically undertakes a strategic planning process with the involvement of key stakeholders.

2.  The plans, programs, and activities are aligned with the medical school's vision, mission, and objectives.

3.  Relevant external and internal factor conditions are identified and used in the formulation of the plan.

4.  Plans, programs, and activities have clear and measurable targets and are time bound.

5.  A system for periodic follow-through and evaluation is in place for plans, programs, and activities.

6.  Ethics, social responsibility, technology, innovation, and internationalization are considered in formulating the strategic plan.

7.  Adequate resources are committed to the planning exercise and the implementation and evaluation of the strategic plan.




Section 4

Sub-area: Sub-area 1.4. Policy Formulation and Implementation

STANDARD 4.
The institution has a system for formulating and implementing policies that reflect institutional values, promote its unique culture, make operations efficient, and conform to government regulations and standards.   

Questions:

1.  A system following the Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle is followed in policy formulation and implementation.

2.  Policies and procedures promote the medical school's values and the unique culture of the institution.

3.  They are customer-focused and enforced with transparency, consistency, and fairness.

4.  They consider interrelationships among the various sectors of the medical school and promote synergy in operations.

5.  Policies for teaching-learning, research, community engagement, and services are articulated and documented.

6.  They comply with government regulations and standards.




Section 5

Sub-area 1.5. Risk Management   

STANDARD 5.
A risk management system is in place to ensure that the institution is aware of and manages present and future risks.  

Questions:

1.  A risk management program is in place to assess, communicate and implement initiatives to identify and mitigate current and potential sources of risk.

2.  Explicit risk management policies and established protocols are defined to forestall any identified risks.

3.  Management assumes the primary responsibility for managing risks and involves the participation of key stakeholders in initiatives involving risk determination and control.

4.  Medical school resources are utilized effectively, safeguarded, and sufficiently ensured.

5.  Transparent monitoring processes are established so that all risk-mitigating efforts are working and are effective.